---
layout: post
title:  "week one"
date:   2015-06-14
---

I was really worried that I was going to graduate to University of Texas with a degree in computer science without taking the software engineering course taught by Glenn Downing. I have heard tons of good things about that course from my peers in the department. The opportunity presented itself to take this class during the Summer of 2015 and I jumped at the chance. A week has gone by and now it's time to reflect and give you some of my thoughts regarding the course structure. 

I have been fortunate enough to be a part of three internships, so I have learned lots of important concepts such as integration systems, version control systems, unit and functional testing just to name a few! A lot of the material that we covered during this first week reminded me of my time during these internships and how easier they would've been had I taken this course first, remember I have only been through a week of this class and already I see the huge benefits this class provides. There are some concepts that he has covered that I was forced to learn on my own, and I'm really excited and glad I get to go back and solidify my understanding of these concepts which I'm sure will make me a better programmer. 

Another thing that I really appreciate is the teaching style of Mr. Downing. I have never been a part of a class in which the material is taught in a way that makes it easily digestible and understandable. Or maybe it is just that I am forced to pay attention to hundred percent of the time because the instructor calls on people at random throughout the lecture and asks a question. Whatever the reason maybe, I always know what is going on and understand the material, unlike other courses where I have to go back, review my notes and read the book to understand the material. 

I am really excited about the opportunity to learn python. Python a programming language that I have been really wanting to learn for a long time now but never really had the chance. I also heard that we will be using the Django web framework and I'm curious to see how it compares to the Rails framework as I'm really familiar with that. I really think that this course is going to solidify a lot of concerts that I've been exposed to in my internships and I'm really looking forward to that.

{% highlight text %}

Tip of the week:

In the terminal (Unix), after you type the few characters to search, 
you can press CTRL+R to browse through the history that matches what you typed. 
This has been extremely useful for me in my internships. 
Note: it will be limited to your usage history.

{% endhighlight %}

Word count: 466

